Add doc for incrementally migration IHttpModule implementations (#32030)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/migration/inc/http-modules.md

---
title: Incremental migration of IHttpModules

> description: Describes how to use the System.Web adapters to incrementally migrate IHttpModules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Describes how to use the System.Web adapters to incrementally migrate HTTP modules.
```

author: twsouthwick
ms.author: tasou
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'
ms.date: 3/11/2024
ms.topic: article
uid: migration/inc/http-modules
---

# ASP.NET to ASP.NET Core incremental IHttpModule migration

> Modules are types that implement <xref:System.Web.IHttpModule> and are used in ASP.NET Framework to hook into the request pipeline at various events. In an ASP.NET Core application, these should ideally be [migrated](../http-modules.md) to middleware. However, there are times when this cannot be done. In order to support migration scenarios in which modules are required and cannot be moved to middleware, System.Web adapters supports adding them to ASP.NET Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Modules](../http-modules.md) are types that implement <xref:System.Web.IHttpModule> and are used in ASP.NET 4.x to hook into the request pipeline at various events. In an ASP.NET Core application, these should ideally be migrated to middleware. However, there are times when this cannot be done. In order to support migration scenarios in which modules are required and cannot be moved to middleware, System.Web adapters support adding them to ASP.NET Core.
```

        // Register a module (optionally) by name
        options.RegisterModule<MyModule>("MyModule");
    });

// Only available in .NET 7+
builder.Services.AddOutputCache(options =>
{
    options.AddHttpApplicationBasePolicy(_ => new[] { "browser" });
});

var app = builder.Build();

app.UseAuthentication();
app.UseAuthenticationEvents();

app.UseAuthorization();
app.UseAuthorizationEvents();

app.UseSystemWebAdapters();
app.UseOutputCache();

app.MapGet("/", () => "Hello World!")
    .CacheOutput();

app.Run();

class MyApp : HttpApplication
{
    protected void Application_Start()
    {
    }

    public override string? GetVaryByCustomString(System.Web.HttpContext context, string custom)
    {
        // Any custom vary-by string needed

        return base.GetVaryByCustomString(context, custom);
    }
}

class MyModule : IHttpModule
{
  public void Dispose()
  {
  }

  public void Init(HttpApplication application)
  {
    application.BeginRequest += (s, e) =>
    {
      // Handle events at the beginning of a request
    }

    application.AuthorizeRequest += (s, e) =>
    {
      // Handle events that need to be authorized
    }
  }
}
```

## Global.asax migration

> This infrastructure can be used to migrate usage of `Global.asax` if needed. The source from `Global.asax` is a custom <xref:System.Web.HttpApplication> and the file can be included in you ASP.NET Core application. Since it is named `Global`, the following can be used to register it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This infrastructure can be used to migrate usage of `Global.asax` if needed. The source from `Global.asax` is a custom <xref:System.Web.HttpApplication> and the file can be included in an ASP.NET Core application. Since it is named `Global`, the following code can be used to register it:
```

```csharp
builder.Services.AddSystemWebAdapters()
    .AddHttpApplication<Global>()
```

> As long as the logic within it is available in ASP.NET Core, this can be used to incremental migrate reliance on `Global.asax` to ASP.NET Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As long as the logic within it is available in ASP.NET Core, this approach can be used to incrementally migrate reliance on `Global.asax` to ASP.NET Core.
```

## Authentication/Authorization events

In order for the authentication and authorization events to run at the desired time, the following pattern should be used:

```csharp
app.UseAuthentication();
app.UseAuthenticationEvents();

app.UseAuthorization();
app.UseAuthorizationEvents();
```

If this is not done, the events will still run. However, it will be during the call of `.UseSystemWebAdapters()`.

## HTTP Module pooling

>  Because modules and applications in ASP.NET Framework were assigned to a request, a new instance is needed for each request. However, since they can be expensive to create, they are pooled using <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.ObjectPool.ObjectPool`1>. In order to customize the actual lifetime of the <xref:System.Web.HttpApplication> instances, a custom pool can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Because modules and applications in ASP.NET 4,x were assigned to a request, a new instance is needed for each request. However, since they can be expensive to create, they are pooled using <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.ObjectPool.ObjectPool`1>. In order to customize the actual lifetime of the <xref:System.Web.HttpApplication> instances, a custom pool can be used:
```
